---
layout: post
title: Using Gulp.js (updated as I go)
excerpt: "I've needed a replacement for Codekit for a while - trying out Gulp"
modified: 2015-03-03
tags: [beginner, gulpjs, tutorial]
comments: true
---

###Transitioning away from CodeKit

One of the things that I can very much attribute to my crossing into design and development is the sheer amount of tools that are readily available to download for free. I intend to share the full details of my setup in another post but my day-to-day workflow consists almost exclusively of tools that I came across for free (Compass for instance which I use to compile my CSS) or came pre-existing on my Mac i.e Terminal. This ostensibly means that a new developer can begin to learn coding for almost nothing. To me, this is wonderful and makes a great case for anyone to begin.

More often than not I have found that initial searches for tools offer paid-for clients that often come equipped with an easy-to-use GUI. These tools are often designed to do a few things reliably and very well. An example of this is the brilliant CodeKit which I have been using solely for live-reload. Live-reload is where my Chrome browser is asked to auto-refresh any time I make a change to the code. This is incredibly helpful when it comes to editing things like CSS styles, which take up the majority of my time.

Now, CodeKit does a great job and is well worth paying for. It is also relatively affordable since you get name your price (between $30 - $40) after a 14 day trial. But there are free tools out there that offer similar results. One of which is Gulp.js.

###Why Gulp.js?

Again, it is free. When building a startup this is an immeasurably large consideration since it means resources (even $35) can be better used elsewhere. Gulpjs also does a great number of other things to boot. It's also a Sass compiler and can be used to create a number of functions. but was recommended to me as a way to replace CodeKit when it comes to livereload a YouTube commenter. Suprising, I know. 

***

I'll let you know how it goes.




